README.md, before:

# rapl-rust-test

The repository for RAPL testing.

## GitHub Actions

An issue currently too is that MSR's are not accessible with GitHub Actions, likely due to that it runs under Docker.

## Windows

Currently this does not work on Windows because `readmsr` requires kernel access. It will require a kernel driver to make it work. Intel Power Gadget can support it by design but it will only be for Intel processors in that case.

Solution found: Use LibreHardwareMonitor's driver. It is open source and can be used for this purpose.

## RAPL test

https://github.com/djselbeck/rapl-read-ryzen

https://me.sakana.moe/2023/09/06/measuring-cpu-power-consumption/

https://github.com/hubblo-org/windows-rapl-driver

https://github.com/amd/amd_energy

## Test for CPU

https://github.com/RRZE-HPC/likwid/issues/373

List the CPU's MSR's on Linux.

`ls -la /dev/cpu/*/msr`

Enable MSR.

`sudo modprobe msr`

## Install driver on Windows

Use command prompt as administrator.

Query for all drivers:

`sc query type= driver`

Create:

`sc create rapl type= kernel binPath= "full path to driver here"`

Start:

`sc start rapl`

Stop:

`sc stop rapl`

Delete:

`sc delete rapl`

## How to run tests
This may be changed in the future

### Example with fibonacci sequence and python python
1. Build the rapl code with `cargo build` in root
2. Download, install and start libreHardwareMonitor
3. Call the benchmarking code (with administrative priviliges):
    - ``` python '.\benchmarks\fibonacci sequence\bench.py' ```
4. The results can be found in "test.csv" in the root folder

Commit message:

Updated readme with how to run with script

README.md, after:

# rapl-rust-test

The repository for RAPL testing.

## GitHub Actions

An issue currently too is that MSR's are not accessible with GitHub Actions, likely due to that it runs under Docker.

## Windows

Currently this does not work on Windows because `readmsr` requires kernel access. It will require a kernel driver to make it work. Intel Power Gadget can support it by design but it will only be for Intel processors in that case.

Solution found: Use LibreHardwareMonitor's driver. It is open source and can be used for this purpose.

## RAPL test

https://github.com/djselbeck/rapl-read-ryzen

https://me.sakana.moe/2023/09/06/measuring-cpu-power-consumption/

https://github.com/hubblo-org/windows-rapl-driver

https://github.com/amd/amd_energy

## Test for CPU

https://github.com/RRZE-HPC/likwid/issues/373

List the CPU's MSR's on Linux.

`ls -la /dev/cpu/*/msr`

Enable MSR.

`sudo modprobe msr`

## Install driver on Windows

Use command prompt as administrator.

Query for all drivers:

`sc query type= driver`

Create:

`sc create rapl type= kernel binPath= "full path to driver here"`

Start:

`sc start rapl`

Stop:

`sc stop rapl`

Delete:

`sc delete rapl`

## How to run tests
This may be changed in the future

### how to run with runBench.sh (only works on linux)
1. Build the rapl code with `cargo build` from root
2. Call the script with `sudo sh runBench.sh`
3. The results will be put in csv files in root after the script is finished 

### how to run Fibonacci sequence with python
1. Build the rapl code with `cargo build` from root
2. Download, install and start libreHardwareMonitor (not required for linux)
3. Call the benchmarking code (with administrative priviliges):
    - ``` python '.\benchmarks\fibonacci sequence\bench.py' ```
4. The results can be found in "test.csv" in the root folder
